# ASSESSMENT 5: Interview Practice Questions
Answer the following questions.

First, without external resources. Challenge yourself to answer from memory.

Then, research the question to expand on your answer. Even if you feel you have answered the question completely on your own, there is always something more to learn. Write your researched answer in your OWN WORDS.

1. What is a block in Ruby?

Your answer: A block of code in ruby is a section of code that accepts an input and returns (through end) an output.

Researched answer: a block is simular to a method only a blcok does not belong to an object.  Blocks in ruby are anonymous and can take an input and return an output. Blocks are gennerally called clouseres in different programing languages.

2. What is a gem?

Your answer: Gem's are package libraries that are used by Ruby.

Researched answer: A Gem is a package mannager for the Ruby language that fetures a shared library which allows for increased functionality in Ruby applications.

3. What is Ruby on Rails?

Your answer:Ruby on Rails is an web application framework.  Rails was built with the Ruby programming language in the early/mid 2000's. Rails can be used to build applications and has database functionality.

Researched answer:Ruby on Rails is a full stack server side web application framework. Rails was written in Ruby and is open-source. Rails is known for providing a relativly simple pre-built structer which eaises develpment of applications in rails. 

4. What is a relational database? Are there other kinds of databases?

Your answer: A relational database stores data in a structure thats simular to an excel sheet.  The important feture that relational databases have is that they allow for relaitonships between data points ie the datapoint of name might have a relationship with birthday so name: Michael has Birthday: 4/23.  There are other darabase types, off the top of my head I think theres one call a funcational database.

Researched answer: a relationsl database is a database that organizes data points using model that is based on the relationship between the data points. The relationship between datapoints is commonly organized into data tables in a way that allows different data tables to link to each other based on common data.  An example might be the IRS pulling data from several data tables all of whuch contain the common datapoint "social security number".  This allows userd to buld a new dataset by being able the query several tables at once using the common data. There are severl other types of databases such as cloud databadsed that are nonrelational.These are gennerally used for spesfic taks that require high optimiation such as big data projects or when an alternative data structer (to tables) is needed.

5. What are primary keys? Why are they important?

Your answer: Primary keys are the unquie idtifiers of data points in a database. I tend to think of them in terms of a spreadsheet that I used at my old job where we had an employee roster of 30k employees, the first colmn was a cancatiation of several datapoints so that we always had a unuqie identifier for each employee

Researched answer: The primay keys are part od a relational table in a relational database.  Primary keys provide a unique identifier for each data point in the table. They can be used to compare, sort, and create relationships between records. Depending on the datbase primary keys can be created by the user or generated by the database management software. 

## Looking Ahead: Terms for Next Week
Research and define the following terms to the best of your ability.

1. RESTful routes: Restful routes are just a conventional pattern to follow when structuring different routes for interacting with the server whenever an HTTP request is made by the client.

2. JSON:JSON stands for JavaScript Object Notation. JSON is a lightweight format for storing and transporting data. JSON is often used when data is sent from a server to a web page

3. ERB: ERB stands for embedded Ruby. It's a tool that embeds fragments of Ruby code in other files such as HTML files similar to ASP, JSP and PHP

4. Params: A parameter is a special kind of variable in computer programming language that is used to pass information between functions or procedures. The actual information passed is called an argument.

5. API: An application programming interface, or API, enables companies to open up their applications’ data and functionality to external third-party developers, business partners, and internal departments within their companies. This allows services and products to communicate with each other and leverage each other’s data and functionality through a documented interface. Developers don't need to know how an API is implemented; they simply use the interface to communicate with other products and services. API use has surged over the past decade, to the degree that many of the most popular web applications today would not be possible without APIs.
